Unlike traditional blockchains that are
really general purpose blockchains that
force everyone into a single pipe,
Avalanche operates more like a highway
system with infinitely scalable lanes.
And so Bitcoin gave us one blockchain
with one asset. Ethereum, Salana,
Polygon offered one blockchain with many
assets. Avalanche takes a different
approach with many blockchains and many
assets.
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Olivia Van
Wood, the head of tokenization at AVA
Labs, the team that built and maintains
the Avalanche blockchain.
In this conversation, we discussed how
blockchain technology improves the costs
associated with real world assets,
revenue driving strategies that
blockchain enables, the avalanche
ecosystem and its rampant growth in
onchain RWAS,
why TVL is the northstar metric, what
everyone gets wrong about tokenization,
and so much more. Just a reminder,
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
and that the guest or host might hold
tokens discussed in any given episode.
You can check out a full disclaimer at
www.newtoday.com.
If you enjoyed this episode, please
don't hesitate to rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
share it with friends and family. Every
rate, review, like, and comment helps us
reach more people and bring you more of
your favorite guests. With all that
said, I really enjoyed this conversation
with Olivia. And I hope you enjoy it,
too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast. Today, we're joined by
Olivia Vanderwood, the head of
tokenization at Avalabs, the firm that
built and maintains the Avalanche
blockchain. Olivia, how we doing today?
>> Doing great. Thank you so much for
having me on, Dylan.
>> Yeah. Um, this is a fun interview
because you kind of hunted us down off
of Twitter and I did.
>> Yeah, it was serendipitous because
Avalanche is kind of like one of these
chains that's quietly been onboarding
and tokenizing and and getting Tradfi
onto the chain into the ecosystem and
it's kind of like an up into the right
manner slowly over the past year or so.
So, it's really cool to be chatting with
you. So, I appreciate you hunting us
down. It's very much appreciated. Yeah,
thank you. And multiple platforms,
Twitter, LinkedIn, all of them. Well
worth it.
>> Yes. And before we jump into everything,
I do have to ask, are are you still
writing poetry?
>> I am. I haven't been asked that. That's
such a such a nice question to start off
with. Yes, I am. I am still writing
poetry. Um I was a liberal arts major
and uh that still holds true to many
aspects of my life. So yeah, still very
inter multi multid-disciplinary in that
way.
>> Do you use it uh writing poetry to kind
of um let go of some of the steam
sometimes that might build up working in
the crypto space?
>> Some of the steam you know actually it's
it's quite a it's more meditative or or
centering. So obviously I mean with all
of us being on Twitter and number of
platforms uh and the number of dopamine
hits that we get per day being online
all the time, it's nice to unplug and um
focus, you know, on one idea or one one
object and uh write about it. So I use
it more as a as a way of centering
myself.
>> Who are some of your inspirations? Who
got you into poetry?
>> Oh yeah. Um this might be a more obscure
name, but Edna St. Vincent Malay, very
famous um female main poet, Emily
Dickinson, of course, Robert Frost,
Robert Lel, a range of them. Hard to
pick just one.
>> Awesome. Cool. So, what was um what's
your genesis story with with Bitcoin and
Ethereum? A common theme for guests on
the pod, and this is my arc as well, is
like first you hear about it, then you
ignore it, then you look at it again,
and then you laugh, and then the third
time you're like, "What was I thinking 5
years ago? I should have gotten into
this.
>> Do you have a similar sort of arc?
>> I I do. Um I'd say really the seed was
planted when I was in college. One of my
friends launched a tokenized real estate
project. Coincidentally, and and by the
way, I like I said was a liberal arts
major. I double major in history and
French, wrote my honors thesis on child
witches of the Spanish Inquisition. So
that doesn't exactly scream
tokenization. But fortunately, one of my
friends, like I said, launched a
tokenized real estate project. And at
the time he told me, "You should really
read this book or guide. It's called
Crypto Assets by Chris Bernki." And I
did just out of intellectual curiosity.
And I was drawn to a number of things,
but including his framing of Bitcoin
scarcity, hard cap of 21 million units,
supply inflation having every four
years, mathematically more scarce than
gold. And I just started building
positions on my own. And I while I had
considered a path of academia, I uh also
realized the reality of college college
loans looming. So uh as I was looking
for potential job positions, I stumbled
across equity research um and then ended
up at Tro Price Group on an equity desk
and my conviction in Bitcoin only
deepened there. I was covering small and
midcap bank stocks there and ended up
developing a fluency in balance sheet
dynamics, credit intermediation and the
regulatory architecture that really
shapes capital formation and I also saw
firsthand how legacy if not cobalt based
infrastructure can create a drag on
markets that you know move in
milliseconds everywhere else. So um that
friction of seeing correspondent
banking, T plus2 settlement, fragmented
custody, cobalt based core systems
upfront, that friction really made and
became the the investment case. And so
when I joined my team at TRO in around
2020, the team asked me to publish
thought leadership on on DeFi and
blockchain just because they knew of my
own interest and they wanted to
understand more of the implications for
regional bank stocks that we were
investing in and the timing was really
ideal. If you flip back to that era and
the the time that I was at my previous
firm, NYCB was, you know, minting USDF
on Provenence blockchain. Acting
controller Brian Brooks had just
established that banks could hold
cryptographic keys for customers. I
think at the time, Tacet had also
launched the digital interbank network.
And so there was a lot going on that
that had ramifications for the likes of
Signature Bank, customers bank, Western
Alliance that were, you know,
considering tokenized dollar deposits on
on the platform. And so that you know
that experience made me into more of a
thought leader internally. Um I got to
know the JAM FinTop team as well. And so
I was covering that that cohort of banks
um that was involved with a lot of these
blockchain adjacent and related
initiatives and just out of the spirit
of of intellectual curiosity went down
the proverbial rabbit hole. I know is is
offused and ended up you know working
with the Shefi team doing uh actually
I've done that course a few times now
that really accelerated my technical
ramp on more of the tokconomics modeling
smart contract mechanics and and DeFi
protocol architecture side and so got
really excited on the the technical side
and then Tro ended up launching a
digital assets working group and so I
got to translate more of what I was
seeing in my coverage universe into
internal research on you know where
blockchain rails could compress margins
or disintermediate middlemen and and
restructure value chains. And
coincidentally, in in 2023, I also had a
front row seat when the firm joined
Avalanch's Spruce Test net and that was
alongside Wellington, Wisdom Tree,
Cumberland, and that was to test onchain
FX swaps, interest rate derivatives, and
and atomic settlement on permission
rails. And so that was really incredible
to see institutional grade participants,
you know, executing test trades that
settled in seconds, counterparty risk
collapsing to near zero. And I got to
know Morgan Ketsky who leads out our
onchain finance team now. Uh she was
leading that initiative at Avalabs and I
knew I wanted to work with her. And so
flash forward, joined Avalabs about a
year and a half ago to help build out
the tokenization pipeline myself uh
working with the supply side of the
equation. So think top tier issuers like
BlackRock, Van, Franklin Templeton,
Apollo, KKR that are bringing assets
onto the Avalanche blockchain network.
And then I've also been very laser
focused on the demand side of that
equation. So working with fintexs that
have an appetite for products like
stable coin yield products or you know
tokenized US equities infrastructure
from our partners including Open Trade
or Dinari. And I've also been very
focused on cultivating our network of
allocators. So ranging from VC funds to
liquid funds that may have an appetite
for DeFi strategies or RWAS or RWBA
looping strategies for example within
the Avalanche ecosystem. And so very
excited about the demand or distribution
side of the equation and and building
that out within our ecosystem.
>> Wow. So much to unpack there. One of the
the things that kind of um when we
started the pod in 2022, one of the
first kind of themes of conversations we
were having was with third parties that
were working alongside Trifi. Um maybe
they were under NDA and some of the
conversations were along the lines of
the big guys are secretly building on
chain, you just don't know how or what.
So during your time at at Tro were maybe
at like happy hours or with your
industry peers, were you were you
talking with folks about tokenization
andor um maybe ways in which the likes
of like Fidelity was doing Bitcoin and
Ethereum mining? Were there kind of like
largecale institutions that were talking
about how they were entertaining the
idea of blockchain or maybe even
experimenting with blockchain or was
that something that kind of really took
off in the past couple years? Yeah, I
mean I would say at the time of the test
net that I just mentioned that was 2023
that was done in in uh close
collaboration with the likes of
Wellington, wisdom tree, Cumberland and
other initiatives that Avalanche has
worked on have been under MAS or
monetary authority uh of Singapore's
project guardian which also brings
together other um heavy hitters in terms
of institutions. So I would agree that
many of the institutions have been
working on this for a long time. You
just mentioned Fidelity. Um that's a
case in point of of an institution
that's you know got hundreds of folks
working on their various blockchain
initiatives. Franklin Templeton has also
been at the forefront u especially with
their their Benji or tokenized money
market fund having launched several
years ago now um and really started a
trend of of tokenized money market funds
um by you know other asset managers and
the the really wave of tokenization that
that followed. So yes definitely have
seen institutions working on this for
some time. I mean if you look back at
2017 2018 you could also refer to the
more enterprise chains that were around
at the time building on Hyperledger Basu
or the R3s of the world and um obviously
that was a different landscape just as
they were working in more private
permissioned instances but uh certainly
has been a a long history of of
institutions um participating or at
least experimenting with uh with
blockchain technology and excite in a
very exciting turn of events that's only
accelerated in the last year or So
>> yeah. So what would you say is kind of
the the key trend that moved
institutions away from the corporate
chains, the the private chains, um the
R3s, the hyperledgers, and what made
them see the merits of open
decentralized public blockchain
networks? This really comes as no
surprise but you know regulatory clarity
has certain has certainly helped quite a
bit um in the last year especially in
terms of institutions being um willing
to participate more in in the space. The
regulatory clarity has has invited more
institutional participation. Um, I'd say
though at this point what's really
exciting too is, you know, at the end of
the day when I think about whether it's
an enterprise or an institution
looking into blockchain technology, what
they're most excited about is on the one
hand cost efficiency, but then also on
the other hand, you know, novel revenue
streams that would justify them putting
R&D or or resources at large into
implementing blockchain technology. And
so um I think much of the innovation
that's occurred in DeFi and blue chip
DeFi protocols like Ave or Morpho or you
know the the other borrow lend protocols
that um have really proven um the cost
efficiencies and also novel novel you
know revenue opportunities and
capabilities has really drawn the
attention of of institutions and Morpho
is a great example of that. I mean,
they've been they've been partnering
with um you know, pretty large names and
and institutions. Just last week, they
announced a a partnership with Bitwise,
for example, that's a $15 billion asset
manager um that will be now doing vault
creation through Morpho. And so, that
that trend's only set to accelerate as
as other institutional players see the
merits of of vault infrastructure as
well. Mhm. And so as we kind of um come
from the 10,000 foot level down to
earth, what's the sort of relationship
between Ava Labs and Avalanche today?
>> And I I'd love to explain to what what
Avalanche is in the first place. So for
those of you hey who may be less
familiar with the ecosystem, Avalanche
is a blockchain platform that enables
any business to build customized
blockchain infrastructure based on their
particular needs. And unlike traditional
blockchains that are really general
purpose blockchains that force everyone
into a single pipe, Avalanche operates
more like a highway system with
infinitely scalable lanes. And so
Bitcoin gave us one blockchain with one
asset. Ethereum, Salana, Polygon offered
one blockchain with many assets.
Avalanche takes a different approach
with many blockchains and many assets.
So we have our public permissionless
Cchain. It's fast, it's cheap, it's
decentralized. But businesses can also
add customized lanes that come in in
different flavors. It could be private
and permissioned chains for institutions
that need strict compliance. It could be
permission control with public use for
enterprises and major organizations, or
it could be public permissionless for
open innovation. And so what makes this
pretty powerful is that everything
operates under one tent, if you will. So
historical enterprise chains we were
talking about earlier failed because
they lived in silos. They were isolated
databases without innovation or
liquidity flowing in. In contrast,
Avalanche connects institutions,
governments, enterprises, and DeFi
within the same network, allowing assets
to move freely based on whatever their
compliance requirements are. And so most
blockchains will tell you, here's our
solution. Now fit your business into
our, you know, limits. Avalanche will on
the other hand say how do we customize
this technology for your business needs.
Um we're really focused on building
foundational infrastructure that
supports businesses on their terms. So
FIFA for example obviously a pretty well
recognized sports organization with over
5 million fans selected Avalanche to
power the FIFA blockchain. It's a custom
layer 1 network that's designed to
deliver digital collectibles and and
next generation fan engagement at global
scale. And so FIFA's decision, in my
view, reflects the need for verifiable
digital ownership and and direct
engagement with massive audiences. And
that's enabled by avalanches, sub-second
transaction, finality, minimal fees, and
and really resilience to network
congestion even during high traffic
events like World Cup matches. So that's
what Avalanche is from an infrastructure
perspective. What Avalabs is is the
software development company that is
supporting the growth and adoption of
the Avalanche blockchain network. And so
on the business development side, what
that looks like in practice is really
serving as a trusted advisor to
enterprises or businesses that are
looking to bring their activities
existing activities onchain. Perhaps
they want to unlock cost efficiencies as
I mentioned or perhaps they want to
unlock novel revenue streams by using
blockchain infrastructure um you know as
an underlying technology. And so we
really serve as as trusted advisers to
those projects. Perhaps it's an
institution that's never touched
blockchain. Perhaps it's, you know, an
enterprise that has been doing test nets
and maybe had an enterprise chain in
2018, but you know, wants to explore the
Avalanche ecosystem and um access the
assets within the avalanche ecosystem
from VANC or Labber Wellington
Management, KKR, Apollo and so on. We
really meet those institutions where
they are and um provide them with
introductions to adjacent ecosystem
partners that may be working on
something similar or have used a similar
blueprint in the past, we'll introduce
them to our um tech enablement partners.
So be it a tokenization platform like
securitize or centrifuge or republic
that's well integrated with avalanche or
be it oracle providers um or anything in
between we make the introduction so that
uh the enterprises institutions you know
aren't just left in the dust and and
left to their own devices to figure out
what um and how to most maximize their
their onchain activities.
So I think um one of the key themes for
2024 going into 25 and beyond was being
in the room and there were only a
handful of L2s or blockchain ecosystems
that were in the room on Wall Street in
the room with businesses having sort of
BD like roles that were there to answer
questions of large scale institutions.
So when we look at like the blockchain
and crypto space in general, there's all
these L1s and L2s and and different
types of ecosystems
>> and it's difficult for an entity to kind
of choose which chain to build on.
>> Now I am a believer in being in the room
is half the battle. So when you're out
kind of pitching Avalanche or fielding
calls, who are the kind of like other
competitors maybe would be the best way
to put it? What are the kind of like
other folks that are in the room that
you're kind of pitching against?
>> Yeah, that's a really interesting
question too because being a network of
layer 1 blockchains, Avalanche doesn't
have one single competitor. like I I
think there are general purpose
platforms that have made their made
their name in payments or made their
name in um you know consumer related
activities and for for Avalanche that's
there isn't one single focus necessarily
um you can build an L1 like I said
related to FIFA and and consumer
enterprise applications there's um
applications on Avalanche related to
sports and loyalty programs um for
example powering the Cleveland Cavs uh
sports and loyalty platform uh through
partners like Uptop or as I mentioned
earlier on the onchain finance team,
we've been working with the likes of
Galaxy, you know, to bring their
tokenized CLLO on chain. And in another
example, we have a gaming vertical
that's brought Nexon's Maple Story game
onto Avalanche and as well as Off the
Grid, which is a a first-person shooter
game um onto Avalanche. And so really,
we've been powering a range of
applications. And so all that's to say
it's it's hard to to you know name just
one competitor but um you know certainly
across the L1's and L2s you know all of
them are competitors in some form or
fashion. I would say where we
differentiate um in terms of Avalabs is
a you know we have the customizable
infrastructure underpinning Avalanche
and that enables our you know more
embedded finance strategy within the
onchain finance team that I sit on and
so we partner with businesses that use
Avalanche as their financial backbone to
deliver tangible business outcomes and
so our approach really helps businesses
either make money through ne you know
novel revenue streams or save money
through operational ational efficiency
by turning accounts into wallets or
dollars into stable coins or yield into
DeFi and loyalty points into tokens and
so on. And that really does play out
across several verticals where
blockchain solves actual business
problems. So to give you one example,
we're working with companies that are
rebuilding global payment
infrastructure. One example is Axiom.
AXIM.
It's a regulated liquidity as a service
platform. And so they enable money
service businesses to send crossber
payments without preunding accounts
using stable coins and avalanche for
real-time settlement. They're really
proving how blockchain can power next
generation payment infrastructure and at
scale. Their set of competitors may be
very different than the set of
competitors that our other our other
partners may face. So for you know just
to give you another example in in the
vein of the embedded finance strategy
we've also been very active on the
fintech and neoank side. So we're
partnering with financial services
companies that want to offer better
products to their customers. So for
example we work with a company called
open trade excellent team that's
providing yield as a service and taking
a B2B approach of embedding with
neo banks welltech platforms and other
fintex uh platforms and their existing
distribution bases. Importantly, so
Colombia Neo Bank LIO for example
leveraged Open Trade, which is on
Avalanche to offer interestbearing USD
accounts to local customers and again
through Avalanche. And through Open
Trade's RWA yield vaults, Lydio offered
customers yield bearing savings pots as
they're called, but with returns backed
by US Treasury bills and really
operating on proven infrastructure at
scale um and reflecting the continued
growth of of our onchain finance
ecosystem. But all that's to say open
trade has a different set of competitors
than the payments infrastructure player
axiom that I just mentioned. So uh
really depends on on how you define you
know avalanche's given vertical and and
the given uh sets of of competitors.
>> I I have a feeling that I already know
what the answer to this question is
going to be but I want to ask it
anyways. And this was spurred by a
conversation that I saw with
>> I want to say it was Raul Paul in token
2049 in Dubai last year.
>> And basically the theme of the
conversation or maybe this was even just
a segment but it just stuck in my head
so much. And it was there were only two
things that matter for blockchain
metrics
>> either users or TVL. Mhm.
>> And so from your perspective,
>> what do you think is more important or
are there different use cases where the
different metric matters? But when we're
talking about TVL users, what's more
attractive to a team that you're going
out and trying to onboard onto
Avalanche?
>> Oh, that's a that's a an excellent
question. And I would say also, you
know, depends on on uh what specific
blockchain application you're you're
talking about. So um I would certainly
say TVL is
>> a northstar metric from from my
perspective. It measures committed
capital. So it represents assets that
are actively deposited in smart
contracts for lending for liquidity
provisioning for yield generation etc.
That really tells you how much capital
is in fact productive on chain as
opposed to just parked. And so on most
chains, as I've observed, there's a
three to five times gap between TVL and
broader market cap of of assets present.
Stable coins circulate for trading
without, you know, touching lending
protocols. And so in my view, you know,
bridged assets can float without
committing to DeFi. TVL captures assets
that are actively working again,
generating yield, backing loans. And in
contrast, if you look at something like
market cap, that captures everything
that's showed up, whether it's it's
doing anything or not. And so in in
practice, I think a headline number
bloated, you know, with with market cap,
for example, can tell a very different
story than than TVL. And I'd say I don't
know to what extent you're familiar with
RWA.xyz specifically, but that's most
relevant to my my vertical. And so when
I think about metrics that really
matter, when someone asks how big is the
tokenized asset market, the answer you
get really depends on what you're
counting. And most of the time people
are counting what I viewed to be the
wrong things. The the industry has spent
years inflating headline numbers by
lumping together assets that can
actually, you know, do something on
chain with assets that are just sitting
in proprietary databases and wearing
blockchain costumes. And that's changing
now and the frameworks emerging to fix
it matter for anyone that's trying to
separate signal from the noise and as as
you are. And so when I think about
tokenized assets specifically, the
metrics that matter depend on what
you're actually trying to measure. And
the the industry has historically
conflated numbers that tell very
different stories. And so if you go on
rwa.xyz, XYZ, they have the distributed
assets metric and that one in my opinion
captures whether tokenization is really
delivering on its core promise and these
are tokenized assets again as RWA.XYZ
defines them that can move to external
wallets and transfer peer-to-peer
meaning they can compose with DeFi
infrastructure. They can serve as
collateral and lending protocols. They
can provide liquidity on dexes or they
can plug into broader yield strategies.
So when you think about USDC for example
that can be deposited into a morpho
vault curated by bitwise or used as
collateral in a that's a distributed
asset doing what tokenization is
supposed to do and unlocking utility. So
you know when an institutional fund
tokenizes on a a private ledger and the
tokens can't really leave the issuers
platform or the tokens are just sitting
there not gaining utility that's not the
same thing. And in my opinion, lumping
them together really inflates what's
actually happening on chain. And so I
really appreciated RWX RWA.XYZ for
introducing this framework and really
reclassifying data to separate as they
call it distributed from represented
assets. Um and you can see you could see
I think it was late last year they they
introduced the new metrics. the headline
figure shrank for some, not because the
market contract, you know, contracted,
but because the industry finally got
honest about what's actually movable and
uh transferable. And if you look at
Avalanch's breakdown at this point,
there's about 630 million in distributed
assets and and 715 million roughly in
represented assets. And so that's a
really good ratio in my opinion. And the
distributed side, you know, includes
Black Rockck's Bidd, Franklin
Templeton's Benji, Janice Henderson's JA
fund, Apollo's Acred, KKR's healthcare
strategic growth fund, you know, assets
that can and are moving to wallets and
plugging into DeFi in some cases. And
just one example is the institutional um
credit allocator, Grove Finance. They
deployed a 250 million target allocation
into Avalanche ecosystem um and
specifically into the centrifuge JA
product that I just mentioned. And and
that again is is a perfect example of
what happens when distributed assets
actually compose. It's programmable
capital routing from Grove's allocation
engine into institutional grade CLLOs's
issued natively onchain. And so another
example is, you know, Galaxy followed
with a $50 million tokenized CLLO that
was allocated through Grove. And so this
really represents the ongoing
convergence of DeFi, Tradfi, and and
RWAS happening in real time um and and
onchain um and that are actually, you
know, seeing utility and um demand from
the likes of Grove and other allocators.
>> Yeah. And you mentioned uh Black
Rockck's Biddle fund and I think maybe
it was December or November last year,
Black Rockck kind of distributed its
Bittle Fund across multiple different
chains. So now it's living on Avalanche.
There's a a portion of the Biddle fund
living on ETH L1 and a few other chains.
And so when we're talking about
composability, how easy is it now for me
to just migrate a portion of my Bidd
lives on Ethereum over to Avalanche?
like have we crossed the inflection
point where I can just send a tokenized
version of that asset crosschain? Yeah,
I mean I would say with interoperability
solutions today and and we're integrated
with wormhole, Axelr, Chainlink, CCIP
and and other interoperability solutions
and it really comes down to whatever a
given institution or enterprise is is
comfortable with and what their team has
has deemed to be um you know safe and
and adequate you know risk management.
So we're to some extent agnostic uh to
you know the interoperability solutions
that a given project will will select
that's at their discretion. Um but those
are well integrated and and enable you
know interoperability between
ecosystems. I'd say just for for this
you know audience who may not be as
familiar with Avalanche we also have
native interoperability through what's
called interchain messaging. So assets
can seamlessly transfer within the
avalanche ecosystem be it from a FIFA
layer 1 blockchain for example to inane
uh which does tokenized structured
finance is L L1 or back to the public
permissionless Cchain. Maybe this is a
bit of a a highlevel philosophical
question, but I'm from
>> I remember um I'm old enough to remember
when one chain was going to rule them
all and then now we still have a little
bit of tribalism when we start to look
at other chains.
>> What's your perspective about the
multi-chain thesis? um not only just
having like EVM support and intra
avalanche support but also being able to
communicate with assets that live on
other chains and other L1s that will
launch in the future that might join the
the mainstream zeitgeist of of the the
flavor of the day. How do you view the
role of various different chains
acrewing various different assets RWAS
and cryptonative assets alike? What's
your perspective? Is is having multiple
chains a necessary for us as an industry
to grow and thrive or are you of the the
perception that maybe we don't need too
many chains?
>> Yeah, I mean I'd say again it depends on
on the given it depends on the given
entity at hand. Avalanche offers
purpose-built infrastructure and and
blockchain so that
entities such as an institution that may
be beholdened to you know certain
jurisdictional requirements or beholden
to certain KYC AML requirements or um
which may need more fine grained
permissioning. It enables those
institutions to
really customize their layer one
blockchain uh again at the the chain
level with the requirements that their
regulators, auditors, stakeholders,
board etc may require. And so I would
say that the future is multi-chain but
with the asterisk that it's a
multi-chain world of purpose-built
blockchains
>> um as opposed to a multi-chain world of
general purpose blockchains. And for all
the reasons that I mentioned earlier,
um, you know, if you think about an
institution that may be considering an
L1 vers an Avalanche L1 versus an
Avalanche L2, there are real concerns to
be had for a scenario such as, you know,
Taylor Swift, for example, launches an
NFT on an L2 and that may be that may
impede or um impinge upon the execution
of a bilateral spot FX trade that an
institution elsewhere is is doing. And
so there are real issues to be uh
reckoned with as an institution when
considering the ramifications of um you
know sharing an L2 uh with with other um
you know entities that may be unrelated.
So that's one you know aspect as well
for entities and institution you know
such as institutions to consider is on
the congestion side you know who are you
sharing the chain with um and that leads
many institutions to want their own
chain and their own um their own block
you know block space to really tailor
tailor to the requirements at at hand or
to um you know avoid congestion problems
or uh many of the other customizations
that you cannot make on a general
purpose chain.
Let's take one quick step back so that
we can take two steps forward. Of
course, a lot of our audience is
cryptonative, but like I always want my
mom to walk away learning something new.
So, when we're talking about
tokenization,
>> um like what exactly is it? Because
somebody who's been in crypto since 2013
might say remember like Namecoin or the
color coins on Bitcoin or maybe even
CryptoKitties on Ethereum or you name
it. And then tokenization today could
mean something very different for like a
bank or a trady institution.
>> So what is tokenization and and like
from your perspective what exactly is
it?
>> Yes. I mean, at its at its simplest, it
is representing an asset as a digital
token on a blockchain. Much of what I do
in my role is is myth busting as it
relates to tokenization. And so, one
thing that that I would flag for this
conversation is that what everyone gets
wrong about tokenization is that the
bottleneck really isn't the product.
It's not about how many vaults you can
launch or what APYs you can offer. The
actual constraint is distribution
economics. And most projects in my
experience are optimizing for the wrong
thing. So think about what a fintech
faces when they want to offer yield
products to their customers. They have
this brutal build versus buy calculation
staring them down. If they build
in-house, they're looking at months of
legal work, negotiating with asset
managers, sorting out
multi-jurisdictional,
you know, compliance requirements,
building frameworks from scratch, or
they can integrate an API in a matter of
of weeks and and go to market
immediately. Um, most tokenization
projects completely ignore this reality.
They're out trying to acquire retail
users one by one. They're grinding
through the customer acquisition while
platforms that built B2B TTOC
infrastructure just plugged into apps
with millions of existing users and and
called it a day. And I point to projects
building on Avalanche like Open Trade as
well as Intane in conjunction with FIS
and they represent two different but
very you know equally effective
approaches to solving the distribution
problem and understanding how they did
it really explains why our RWA growth on
Avalanche has has looked different from
everyone else's. So, Open Trade, as I
mentioned, they do um yield as a service
infrastructure. They show up in a lot of
ecosystem mapping for tokenization. And
there's a reason for that. They let
FinTech offer yield products backed by
serious names. Think Franklin Templeton
Money Market Funds, Wisdom Tree Private
Credit, Black Rockck's high yield
corporate bond ETF. And they've in just
18 months secured 25 plus fintech
partnerships across Latam, Africa,
Europe, APAC. they're global and they've
created two vaults on Avalanche. Um, and
that represents just really the the tip
of their distribution model and as
opposed to most RWA platforms that are,
you know, celebrating their 100th retail
user, open trade plugs into very
intentionally distribution channels with
millions of existing customers. And
that's not just for faster growth, but
it's really a fundamentally
different category of execution. And I
would say that their approach reveals
three pretty critical gaps that most
projects miss entirely. One is legal
infrastructure really determines your
unic economics and open trade started
with legal frameworks and regulated
partnerships then built the tokenization
technology. So for example, they work
with FCA regulated asset manager five
sigma and they produce weekly vault
reports and that's the kind of
institutional grade oversight that
regulators actually recognize and will
accept. Most teams do it backwards. They
tokenize first, then they spend months
in regulatory limbo trying to figure out
compliance once and then once you've as
that team they figured out the legal
frameworks for one vault. they're
deploying, you know, you know, deploying
your tenth costs dramatically less. The
marginal economics in that are are
completely different. And when you think
about fintexs that are building
in-house, facing months of legal work
per vault, those costs don't just spread
across products. They're integrating,
you know, existing infrastructure
gives immediate access to multiple
pre-approved products. And so open trade
for example, you know, white labels
effectively their legal framework. And
so they really convert fixed costs into
more scalable revenue. And I think that
most RWAs or RWA projects will treat
each vault as a one-off puzzle and then
get stuck at two or three products
while, you know, open trade with their
infrastructure, you know, can can ship
dozens. I'd say second, yield
transparency really determines sales
velocity. Treasury managers that are
more institutional grade, they need
breakdowns. They need to know x% comes
from commercial paper minus y% in fees
with complete attribution.
They can't encounter opaque yields
because otherwise their partners will
inherit the black box and can't answer
their CFO's questions about risk
exposure. And that really translates
into longer deal cycles and and you know
higher turn rates longer term. And then
finally, I really can't emphasize this
enough, but B2B TOC economics really
beat direct to consumer. And building
in-house, like I said earlier, means
months before launch, hundreds of
thousands of dollars of costs, fixed
overhead that really doesn't scale. And
you know, when Open Trade acquires one
fintech partner, that partner brings th
you know, ultimately potentially
thousands of end users and customer
acquisitions get, you know, advertised
across entire user bases. And so I would
say all that's to say most
infrastructure providers optimize for
product variety and the number of
products they can bring on chain instead
of integration velocity. And in my view,
going back to our discussion on metrics,
the winning metric really isn't how many
yield products do we offer. It's what's
our partners' time to revenue. And every
week a fintech
>> spends integrating is a week that
they're not generating yield revenue.
And reducing that time to revenue from
months to weeks creates months of
incremental revenue opportunity. And
that's real money left on the table when
your integration is is pretty slow.
>> I want to use this to spearhead an
opportunity to shill avalanche. And one
of the most fantastic metrics that um
has kind of been spoken about across the
crypto rags this month
>> is of course we're looking back at 2025
now and seeing what the successes were
and one of like the mindnumbing
staggeringly high numbers was the
percentage of growth of tokenized RWAS
on Avalanche which grew 950%
and for a moment there exceeded $1.3
billion in TVL. How how did did um
Avalabs um curate this growth? How did
these relationships get built? What was
it that Avalabs did? What was it that
took place in the zeitgeist of of
America and maybe forward-looking
policy? What is what was catching
lightning in a bottle? A let's just
acknowledge what you know worked outside
of our our our control. And then B, what
were the replicable things that Avalabs
did that you're going to continue to do
in 2026 to continue to see this type of
growth?
>> Like you said, you know, very exciting
year in the Avalanche ecosystem. Saw
about 950% year-over-year growth. Um,
and it's really not just about
attracting projects. It's about
attracting the right projects and the
platforms that have solved distribution
economics first then needed
infrastructure that matched their
institutional requirements. So if you
look at the you know north of of 1.3
billion in RWA TVL touch it's it's not
spread across you know thousands of
speculative yield farms. It's
concentrated institutional deployments.
So one example is FIS and in with 432
million in loan pools or Janice
Henderson with 256 million in their JA
product or Skybridge's Legion Strategies
with 218 million and the list goes on.
But the platforms winning institutional
scale aren't the ones with the most
vaults or the highest APYs. They're the
ones that make distribution economics
work. And so that reduce time to revenue
from months to weeks that can convert
you know fixed legal costs into scalable
infrastructure and that ultimately plug
into robust existing customer bases uh
instead of you know grinding through one
by one acquisition. And so the the path
to institutional scale in my view also
comes from making the the build versus
buy decision really obvious. and
Avalanch's growth is what happens when
you know infrastructure aligns with with
that reality. But I'd say just stepping
back too on the institutional
deployments. I mean those are yearslong
relationships, much longer sales cycles
as you might call them. Um that take
number of a number of hours of
handholding and educational sessions
with institutions to ensure that they
get up the educational learning curve
that is that is blockchain that is
understanding the avalanche ecosystem
that is understanding its deterministic
settlement you know and finality and how
that um you know make meets the
standards of their regulators. And so
that is you know the the work of our
business development team do taking that
trusted advisor approach working with
these projects um you know to working
with the startups in our ecosystem and
the builders in our ecosystem that um
you know support these institutions with
their products and services and that
requires support in the form of capital
access for example we have our director
of ecosystem relations Brian Lieberman
who's incredible and he plays matchmaker
effectively between the startups and the
builders in our ecosystem that may be
raising and our allocator network um
that are are willing to support these
teams. It takes um you know joint go to
market strategizing. It takes working
with institutions to ensure that they
you know make their way up the
educational learning curve that they
have the requisite integrations with you
know as I mentioned earlier tokenization
platforms like securitize republic the
apex tokconies of a world the you know
other platforms that that provide these
services that they need be it oracle
providers be it you know in the form of
um other you know marketing support or
whatever it may be we really do take a
holistic approach to supporting
institutions uh where they are and and
where they need to be.
>> So if you go to rwa.xyz and you look at
the rwas that are coming on to
Avalanche, these are tried to find
names, um most like crypto natives
probably aren't going to know the ins
and the outs of these entities and their
offerings. So I'm curious when you and
your team are going out and doing BD to
to meet with institutions to onboard
RWAS where where are you going now? Are
you going to like token 2049? Are you
going to um the offices where these
entities are located? Are you going to
like TRDFI events? What does BD look
like in 2026? And how did that evolve
over the past year or so?
>> Yeah. Um well I would say first and
foremost much of my team comes from Wall
Street. Um I came from Troll Price uh
major asset manager. Much of our team
came from city um and other
institutions. So we already have
networks filled with you know Wall
Street executives and and decision
makers and we also have the the
expertise that has enabled us to really
go into institutions understand their
pain points and make suggestions for
where avalanche blockchain technology
could could slot in because the fact of
the matter is a lot of institutions are
not sure where to start in terms of
their long list of of pain points and
also not sure where blockchain may or
may not be the remedy to certain certain
problems. And so having come from from
finance backgrounds um much of us on the
team are are equipped to um address
those problems but also to you know
leverage our existing networks of you
know institutional players having having
been from that having come from that
world. So that's one aspect. I'd say now
in in terms of the conference circuit. I
mean certainly we're we have a presence
at you know token 2049. We've got um our
head of Asia and and team uh going
heading to consensus in a couple of
weeks. We're at ETH Denver. So we
definitely make the make the rounds as
far as conferences go. But I would say
much of my energy is focused on more of
the web 2 conferences. So, as I
mentioned earlier, I'm very excited
about opportunities within the fintech
landscape. And so, I spend a lot of time
going to uh more tradiank
or fintech f focused conferences um as
those are the the entities that I want
to bring on chain. So, it's a mix. To
answer your question, I'm on the road
quite a bit. I also uh go to some of the
regulatory events as well. I've been to
some of the SEC roundts in person in DC.
Um have been to uh some opport some some
events on the hill. And so um it really
is a a mix of of events. And um you know
I would caution anyone against being you
know totally pigeonhold within within
one community is this just really is
such a an interdisciplinary space.
And before we kind of like zoom out and
and wrap up, what's kind of the goal? We
mentioned that TVL is the northstar
metric. So like what's the golden goal
that Avalanche is shooting for right
now? DAV is around 635ish
million. Is this kind of a number that
you're trying to increase? Are you
trying to onboard X amount of new funds?
what's kind of like the objective metric
that the team is shooting for in 2026.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And I would I would
also, you know, caveat it by saying that
again because Avalanche is a network of
layer 1 blockchains, we all have our
respective goals on the team. Um, in my
case, leading out tokenization, I'm very
excited about the distributed assets
metric that I mentioned that RWA.xyz XYZ
uh demonstrates, but really what that is
at its core is bringing highquality
assets into the ecosystem, but also
giving utility to those assets and um so
that'll be a a major focus for me in the
next year. But I would say making the
the Northstar vision is really to make
businesses better with blockchain
technology. And while it may sound
simple, uh I don't think that many teams
have um have focused on on doing just
that and bringing traditional web 2
companies onchain and re-engineering
their backends uh with tokenization,
smart contracts and all of the the
things we know and love about about
blockchain. And so I'm very excited to
see our continued efforts and bringing
new asset classes on chain. And one area
that our team has been very focused on
is private credit. And obviously
there's, you know, tokenized private
credit opportunities and and accessing
those yields. But um something that's
that's quite counterintuitive is that
some of the best performing assets in
private credit aren't getting financed.
And it's not because they're risky. They
actually perform incredibly well. The
problem is that the operational
infrastructure
um moving money is so slow that by the
time traditional lenders can fund these
assets, they've already matured. And so
that's where we're excited is really
upgrading private credit processes uh
with blockchain technology to make it
more efficient. And let me give you a
more concrete example. Our head of
onchain finance, Morgan Ketsky, has
talked about this at RWA Summit, but 05,
for example, originates short-term
invoices for B2B payments. And we're
talking 5 to 7day receivables. A
business needs working capital today, so
05 funds them immediately. But to get
warehouse financing from their lenders,
there's this whole process of submitting
a borrowing based spreadsheet, of
waiting for the lender's back office to
review it, of verifying collateral and
reconciling everything. And this can
take 5 to 10 days. And when you think
about it, you just funded a 7-day asset,
but you can't get leverage on it for 10
days. So what's happening? You're
bridging that gap with your own equity
capital, which costs way more than debt.
your margins get crushed and capital
markets teams are burning half a day
every week manually reconciling Excel
spreadsheets against facility terms and
so this is fundamentally a trust problem
lenders need to verify that assets are
exactly what originators claim that
they're performing correctly and that
cash flows to senior you know creditors
first traditionally you solve that with
massive back office teams and that's why
only the biggest private credit firms be
it at a Blackstone Stone or an Apollo
really dominate assetbacked finance and
they have the operational infrastructure
whereas emerging managers can't compete
without building that backbone first.
What our team has been pioneering is
using blockchain infrastructure to
change this. So companies like Fence for
example are encoding facility terms
directly into smart contracts such as
the covenants, the cash waterfall, the
fund flows all being programmed in and
then they automate the monitoring in the
settlement. And what used to take a week
now happens in real time. You originate
an asset, collateral data flows in
automatically. The smart contract
verifies everything and and funds
release instantly. And there's no
spreadsheets or reconciliation or delays
as I just mentioned. And the really
exciting impact is that some originators
are seeing their total cost of capital
drop 30 to 40%. Through pure operational
efficiency without even changing the
interest rate. So suddenly a small fund
can compete in markets that used to
require huge teams and originators
aren't stuck with one or two lenders
anymore because they have real
allocation ability. And so what what
people miss in my opinion is this isn't
really about tokenizing loans to trade
on some exchange. It's really about
using blockchain infrastructure to fix
the operational plumbing of traditional
finance and its businesses. And the end
borrower has no idea it's happening on
chain. I mean they have access to the
information but they don't need to know
what's happening on chain. But their
provider can suddenly scale faster and
access cheaper capital. And um that's
that's what we're seeing in terms of the
democratization of institutional finance
in a more practical sense in a very
practical sense. And better technology
means more participants can enter
markets that historically we're walled
gardens and really the the
infrastructure is here thanks to
tokenization, smart contracts, etc. And
um now it's it's a race to who will
adopt it first.
Thank you so much for giving like a
concrete example about how blockchain
technology is replacing these kind of
like old T plus insert X days um for for
traditional entities and how blockchain
actually is a realworld technology that
is providing outdated
um processes. Uh so in addition to kind
of like this recognition for how
blockchain and tokenization can be used
um because you're in the DC area and I
myself flew out to DC in December 2023
with Stand with Crypto to talk about
procrypto legislation. How has the
passage of Genius Act and how is the
hopefully forthcoming passage of Clarity
going to make your job easier? So, first
off, for those who aren't familiar with
it, I'd highly encourage you to look at
the Avalanche Policy Coalition. Uh, they
write some great newsletters, publish
great podcasts. They were just on the
ground in Davos, and they're a really
great resource for all things uh
blockchain and legislation. So to
clarify, so the the Clarity Act is a
major US legislative effort to establish
a clear market structure for digital
assets and it's to divide oversight
between CFTC and the SEC and with the
CFTC governing secondary markets for
digital commodities and the SEC
retaining authority over primary
issuances and and anti-fraud. So this
week, the Senate Agriculture Committee
advanced its portion of the framework in
a short uneventful markup and passing
the the bill along strict party lines
without amendments. And that's largely
um you know the basically the Senate
Senate a draft focuses narrowly on on
secondary markets and and adopts you
know a key industry priority by giving
existing financial intermediaries a more
streamlined path into crypto and it also
creates new CFTC regulated categories
such as digital commodity brokers,
dealers, exchanges and custodians. Um
though you know significant rulem will
be required at a time when the the CFTC
lacks a quorum. So, um I would say you
know what what where attention now
shifts is really to Senate banking where
negotiations particularly around stable
coins uh paying yield are ongoing and in
this includes a white house meeting I
think it was today or this week and if
resolved uh a markup later this month is
possible making really banking the key
remaining gatekeeper for clarity's path
forward. Um, as a policy team looking
ahead, we're focused on three
priorities. One is getting token
classification right, especially for
tokenized real world assets, so that
regulation follows the asset as opposed
to the technology. Two is protecting the
line between infrastructure and
intermediaries with regulation applied
to the businesses operating on top of
blockchain rails rather than the rails
themselves. And then three, we're very
focused on defending an open internet so
that blockchains can function as finance
and commerce can, you know, continue
moving online.
>> Awesome. I'm gonna ask a question that
you're gonna have to move a little bit
nimly because um a lot of folks don't
like to talk about price when they're
working at an entity, but we cannot
ignore the absolute separation between
sentiment on CT and the sheer amount of
adoption that's actually happening.
Governments are holding digital assets.
Uh Tradfi institutions are onboarding
blockchain rails. You gave dozens of
examples during this conversation.
Where is the disparity between current
sentiment and adoption? Why are we
seeing such sentiment in the gutter
right now?
>> Yeah. Well, I would say first of all, in
my opinion, one of the most
misunderstood signals in crypto right
now is the the disconnect between
network activity and price. And I view
this actually as a sign of maturity as
opposed to weakness. You know, in
earlier cycles, one could have observed
that that everything moved together and
that sentiment ripped onchain activity
ripped and then the music stopped and
and everything collapsed. And that was
classic reflexivity where you know
speculation would feed on itself. Um but
what's different in this you know year
early 2026 is that the systems keep
running even when the market mood
doesn't and you can really see that
across the board. Um there's
infrastructure doing real throughput on
the institutional side. You've got rails
and products continuing to evolve even
you know as positioning gets derisked.
um you know obviously ETFs um saw some
outflows earlier this month and um yet
the the buildout continues and so even
looking at Avalanche you know Q4 2025
the network hit record usage average
daily transactions on our public
permissionless Cchain jumped 60% quarter
over quarter active addresses climbed
into the hundreds of thousands daily and
and by year end we were supporting 75
active layer 1 networks or blockchains
and that represents more than a doubling
year-over-year. And that's not
speculative. That's, you know,
infrastructure scaling under under real
demand. And so, um, that's also shown in
the institutional deployments that we
talked about earlier with BlackRock
allocations on Avalanche. MUFG backed
Progat migrated tokenized securities to
an avalanche to serve regulated Japanese
financial institutions. FIS partnered
with Inane to tokenize and manage loan
assets across thousands of US banks.
None of that seems to generate
headlines. Um, but it it does represent
really highquality institutions with
long deployment horizons increasingly
entering entering the space. And so I
know sentiment is really stark right
now. I think the crypto fear and greed
index printed at 16 extreme fear. Um,
Bitcoin lost you know some support. So
the natural question is really you know
if people are building and transactions
are happening why does it why does it
feel bleak um and I think that's what
happen that's what it looks like when an
asset stops being you know purely
speculative and really becomes more
structural and in traditional markets
you know fundamentals and and price are
related but they're not the same exact
signal you know you don't repric Visa
every time transaction count ticks up
you don't repric you know AWS names
every time a developer spins up a new
instance. Markets have cycles, macro
matters, positioning matters, and I
think crypto is really learning that
that separation for the first time.
>> Awesome. Well, thank you so much for
spending an hour with us, Olivia. If
anybody's heard this or you want people
to reach out to you, what's the best way
that people can connect with you and who
are you looking to connect with?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Well, please feel free
to reach out to me on Twitter, uh,
cryptoen, which is crypto queen in
French. Uh, c r y p i ne. And also,
please feel free to reach out to me on
LinkedIn. Um, you can see my name here,
Olivia Vanderwood. I welcome all
inquiries, all questions. I am um here
in the spirit of intellectual curiosity
and and also keen to support anyone who
is exploring or building and is you know
excited to explore the avalanche
ecosystem and uh really interested in
speaking with any web 2 based company be
it a a fintech or otherwise that's
excited about blockchain but doesn't
know where to to start in terms of
developing a stable coin strategy or
incorporating tokenized assets into into
the road map. I'm also excited to talk
to allocators, particularly liquid funds
that may have an interest in um you
know, RWAs or DeFi strategies within the
Avalanche ecosystem. And really anyone
with any interest in the Avalanche
ecosystem is is uh someone I'm very
excited to talk to. So, please uh please
do feel free to reach out.
>> Well, I can attest to the speed in which
Olivia will respond to you. It's rapid.
>> Thanks, Dylan.
>> Awesome. Well, thank you so much for
your time. I appreciate it and uh
looking forward to chatting again.
>> Absolutely. Thank you so much for having
me on.
>> Cheers.
>> Thank you so much for tuning in to the
Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the
loop with all of our latest episodes and
insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com.
And don't forget to subscribe to our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content. And if you enjoyed today's
discussion, please consider showing your
support by liking, commenting, and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform. Your feedback helps
us reach more listeners and brings even
better content your way. We'd also love
to hear from you, so drop a comment in
Spotify or YouTube to share what topics
you'd like us to cover or who you'd like
to see as our next guest. And if you or
someone you know would make a great
guest, then please don't hesitate to
reach out. We're always on the hunt for
fresh voices and new perspectives. And
for our NEO token holders out there,
please consider voting for NEO news
today as your council representative.
We've proudly been serving the NEO
ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue
to do so by putting portions of our
council rewards directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives. Once
again, thank you so much for tuning in
to the Smart Economy podcast, and we
look forward to catching you on the next
episode.